# Resource Limits

- When a pod is scheduled, it consumes a portion of its node's resources based on the specifications in its definition—such as needing 2 CPUs and 1 memory unit.
- The Kubernetes scheduler decides which node will host the pod by evaluating the requested resources against what each node can offer. 

    -   If, for example, Node 2 has sufficient capacity, the scheduler assigns the pod there.

    -   Otherwise, if no node meets the requirements, the pod remains in a pending state.

## Resource Requests

-   Resource requests define the minimum CPU and memory a container is guaranteed when scheduled.

-   Specifying a request, for instance, of 1 CPU and 1 GB memory in a pod definition ensures that the pod will only be scheduled on a node that can provide these minimum resources. 

```bash
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: simple-webapp-color
  labels:
    name: simple-webapp-color
spec:
  containers:
  - name: simple-webapp-color
    image: simple-webapp-color
    ports:
    - containerPort: 8080
    resources:
      requests:
        memory: "4Gi"
        cpu: 2
```

## Resource Limits
-   By default, a container in a pod can consume all the available resources on its node if no limits are set.

-   However, you can restrict its usage by defining resource limits

    -   Setting a limit, such as 1 vCPU, prevents the container from using more than that allocation

    -   Similarly, memory limits restrict its maximum memory usage.


```bash
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: simple-webapp-color
  labels:
    name: simple-webapp-color
spec:
  containers:
  - name: simple-webapp-color
    image: simple-webapp-color
    ports:
    - containerPort: 8080
    resources:
      requests:
        memory: "1Gi"
        cpu: 1
      limits:
        memory: "2Gi"
        cpu: 2
```


## Default Behavior and Scenarios

-   By default, Kubernetes does not enforce CPU or memory requests and limits. 

-   This means a pod without specified limits can consume all available resources on its node, potentially affecting other pods and system processes.

### Below are several scenarios for CPU configurations:

    1.  No Requests or Limits:
    A container can utilize all available CPU, potentially starving other pods.

    2.  Limits Specified Without Requests:
    Kubernetes assumes the request value is equal to the limit (e.g., setting a limit of 3 vCPUs results in a request of 3 vCPUs).
    
    3.  Both Requests and Limits Defined:
    The container is guaranteed its requested amount (e.g., 1 vCPU) but can use additional CPU up to its defined limit (e.g., 3 vCPUs).

    4. Requests Defined Without Limits:
    The container is guaranteed its requested CPU value, with access to additional cycles if available, which allows for efficient utilization of idle resources.

### Similar configurations apply for memory:

    1.  Without any resource configurations, a single pod may monopolize node memory.
    
    2.  When only limits are specified, Kubernetes sets the memory request equal to the limit.

    3.   With both requests and limits, the pod is allocated a guaranteed memory amount and can burst up to the limit.
    
    4.  Only specifying requests guarantees the pod a base amount of memory but might let it consume more, potentially leading to termination if memory usage becomes excessive.